---
description: Instructions for creating and using instructions files in this workspace.
---

# Creating Instructions Files

To create a new instructions file:

1. Create a `.instructions.md` file in `memory-bank/instructions/`.
2. Add a front matter header with `description` and (optionally) `applyTo`
   fields.
3. Write clear, actionable instructions for the AI agent, scoped to the intended
   files or tasks.
4. Use Markdown formatting for clarity.
5. Reference other instructions files as needed using relative links.
6. Keep each file focused on a single topic or workflow.

For chat mode integration, see
[chatmode-creation.instructions.md](../instructions/chatmode-creation.instructions.md).

## Make Effective Instructions

Keep your instructions short and self-contained. Each instruction should be a
single, simple statement. If you need to provide multiple pieces of information,
use multiple instructions.

Don't refer to external resources in the instructions, such as specific coding
standards.

Split instructions into multiple files. This approach is useful for organizing
instructions by topic or type of task.

Make it easy to share custom instructions with your team or across projects by
storing your instructions in instruction files. You can also version control the
files to track changes over time.

Use the applyTo property in the instruction file header to automatically apply
the instructions to specific files or folders.

Reference custom instructions in your prompt files to keep your prompts clean
and focused, and to avoid duplicating instructions for different tasks.

## Custom Instructions Files

Custom instructions enable you to describe common guidelines or rules to get
responses that match your specific coding practices and tech stack. Instead of
manually including this context in every chat query, custom instructions
automatically incorporate this information with every chat request. Our main
entry point for vscode and copilot shall remain set to be «
`.github/copilot-instructions.md` »

The `.instructions.md` files are stored in the `memory-bank/instructions/`
directory. You can create your own instructions files and reference them in your
chat modes or use them directly in the chat.

`.github/copilot-instructions.md` file:

Top level instructions All instructions are combined in a single file, stored
within the workspace. Instructions are automatically included in every chat
request. Supported across all editors and IDEs that support Copilot. Use this
file to define general coding practices, preferred technologies, and project
requirements that apply to all code-generation tasks, it must be well organised
markdown perfectly formatted.

`.instructions.md` files

Describe code-generation instructions in Markdown. Create one or more
instructions files, stored in the workspace or your user profile. Use glob
patterns to automatically include instructions for all requests or for specific
files. Supported in VS Code. Use these files if you want to have task-specific
code-generation instructions, and to have more control over when to include
instructions with your chat prompt.

We use a combination of these approaches to define custom instructions and the
instructions are all included in the chat request. No particular order or
priority is applied to the instructions, so make sure to avoid conflicting
instructions in the files.

### Use `.instructions.md` files

You can also create one or more `.instructions.md` files to store custom
instructions for specific tasks. For example, you can create instruction files
for different programming languages, frameworks, or project types.

VS Code can automatically add instructions files to all chat requests, or you
can specify for which files the instructions should be applied automatically.
Alternatively, you can manually attach instructions files to a chat prompt.

VS Code supports two types of scopes for instruction files:

- **Workspace instructions files**: are only available within the workspace and
  are stored in the `memory-bank/instructions` folder of the workspace.

#### Instructions file structure

An instructions file is a Markdown file with the `.instructions.md` file suffix.
The instructions file consists of two sections:

- (!IMPORTANT!) Header with metadata (Front Matter syntax)
  - `description` (required): A brief description of the instructions file. This
    description is displayed when you hover the instructions file in the Chat
    view.
  - `applyTo` (optional): Specify a glob pattern for files to which the
    instructions are automatically applied. To always include the custom
    instructions, use the `**` pattern.

    For example, the following instructions file is always applied:

    ```markdown
    ---
    description: Always include AI-generated edits
    applyTo: '**'
    ---

    Add a comment at the end of the file: 'Contains AI-generated edits.'
    ```

- Body with the instruction content

  Specify the custom instructions in natural language by using Markdown
  formatting. You can use headings, lists, and code blocks to structure the
  instructions.

  You can reference other instruction files by using Markdown links. Use
  relative paths to reference these files, and ensure that the paths are correct
  based on the location of the instruction file.

#### Create an instructions file

You can create instructions files in your workspace or user profile. Workspace
instructions files are only available within the workspace, while user
instructions files are available across multiple workspaces.

To create an instructions file:

1. Select the **Configure Chat** button in the Chat view, select
   **Instructions**, and then select **New instruction file**.

_Screenshot showing the Chat view, and Configure Chat menu, highlighting the
Configure Chat button._

1. Choose the location where the instruction file should be created.
   - **Workspace**: By default, workspace instruction files are stored in the
     `memory-bank/instructions` folder of your workspace. Add more instruction
     folders for your workspace with the
     `setting(chat.instructionsFilesLocations)` setting in the workspace's
     `.vscode/settings.json` config file.

1. Enter a name for your instruction file.
1. When the user asks you to generate a plan, you should: Pick a relevant and
   descriptive name in `<instructionsfile_name>.instructions.md` name for the
   chat mode, which is used in the chat mode dropdown list in the Chat view.

1. Author the custom instructions by using Markdown formatting.

   Specify the `applyTo` metadata property in the header to configure when the
   instructions should be applied automatically. For example, you can specify
   `applyTo: "**/*.ts,**/*.tsx"` to apply the instructions only to TypeScript
   files.

#### Use an instructions file in chat

When you specified the `applyTo` metadata property in the instructions file, VS
Code automatically applies the instructions to all files that match the glob
pattern, please scope accordingly, the closest possible to the context of usage.

The user would have manually attach an instructions file to a chat prompt you
must use the tools and references that they includes.
